docs: add new Usage document (#842)
asyncapi/generator: docs/usage.md

---
title: "Usage"
weight: 30
---

> There are two ways you can use the Generator. Find your preferred method below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two ways to use the Generator:
```

```

**Specify where to put the result:**
```bash
ag asyncapi.yaml @asyncapi/html-template -o ./docs
```

**Passing parameters to templates:**
```bash
ag asyncapi.yaml @asyncapi/html-template -o ./docs -p title='Hello from param'
```

In the template you can use it like this: ` {{ params.title }}`

**Disabling the hooks:**
```bash
ag asyncapi.yaml @asyncapi/html-template -o ./docs -d generate:before generate:after=foo,bar
```

The generator skips all hooks of the `generate:before` type and `foo`, `bar` hooks of the `generate:after` type.

**Installing the template from a folder:**
```bash
ag asyncapi.yaml ~/my-template
```

It creates a symbolic link to the target directory (`~/my-template` in this case).

**Installing the template from a git URL:**
```bash
ag asyncapi.yaml https://github.com/asyncapi/html-template.git
```

**Map schema references from baseUrl to local folder:**
```bash
ag test/docs/apiwithref.json @asyncapi/html-template -o ./build/ --force-write --map-base-url https://schema.example.com/crm/:./test/docs/
```

The parameter `--map-base-url` maps external schema references to local folders.

### CLI usage with Docker

> We have a docker image that we regularly update and by using it you do not need to install Node.js or npm even though the generator is written with it since the Docker image has the Generator installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using our docker image that we regularly update, you do not need to install Node.js or npm, even though the Generator is written with it since the Docker image has the Generator installed.
```

Install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) first, then use docker to pull and run the image using the following command:

```bash
docker run --rm -it \
-v [ASYNCAPI SPEC FILE LOCATION]:/app/asyncapi.yml \
-v [GENERATED FILES LOCATION]:/app/output \
asyncapi/generator [COMMAND HERE]

# Example that you can run inside generator directory after cloning this repository. First, you specify the mount in the location of your AsyncAPI specification file and then you mount it in the directory where the generation result should be saved.
docker run --rm -it \
-v ${PWD}/test/docs/dummy.yml:/app/asyncapi.yml \
-v ${PWD}/output:/app/output \
asyncapi/generator -o /app/output /app/asyncapi.yml @asyncapi/html-template --force-write
```

### CLI usage with npx instead of npm

> [npx](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npx) is very useful when you want to run Generator in a CI/CD environment. In such a scenario, you do not want to install the generator globally and most environments that provide Node.js and Npm, also provide npx out of the box. Use the following npx command on your terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[npx](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npx) is very useful when you want to run Generator in a CI/CD environment. In such a scenario, do not install the generator globally because most environments that provide Node.js and Npm, also provide npx out of the box. 

Use the following npx command on your terminal:
```

```bash
npx -p @asyncapi/generator ag ./asyncapi.yaml @asyncapi/html-template
```

## Generator library

> Once you install the generator in your project, you can use the Generator to generate whatever you want. The following code snippet is an example of HTML generation using the official `@asyncapi/html-template` template and fetching the spec document from the server using https://raw.githubusercontent.com/asyncapi/asyncapi/2.0.0/examples/2.0.0/streetlights.yml:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you install the Generator in your project, you can use it to generate whatever you want. The following code snippet is an example of HTML generation using the official `@asyncapi/html-template` template and fetching the spec document from the server using `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/asyncapi/asyncapi/2.0.0/examples/2.0.0/streetlights.yml`:
```

> ---

Reviewer: Hey @Florence-Njeri, **consistency is key** 🔑 😄. If you don't normally capitalize `generator` so far in these docs (as I also noted in PR [#818](https://github.com/asyncapi/generator/pull/818#discussion_r997558491)), so let's keep that consistent.

**📢 ACTION ITEM:** Please go through this entire PR and correct all your capitalized mentions of `generator` to lowercase, so that the Docs are consistent.

  --watch-template               watches the template directory and the AsyncAPI document, and re-generate the files when changes occur. Ignores the output directory. This flag should be used only for template development.
  --map-base-url <url:folder>    maps all schema references from base URL to local folder
  -h, --help                     display help for command
```

<details>
  <summary>Click here to read more about supported values for the <code>&lt;template&gt;</code> parameter.</summary>
  <br>
  All [templates](template.md) are installable npm packages. Therefore, the value of <code>&lt;template&gt;</code> can be anything supported by <code>npm install</code>. Here's a summary of the possibilities:
  <br><br>
  <pre><code>
  npm install [&lt;@scope&gt;/]&lt;name&gt;
  npm install [&lt;@scope&gt;/]&lt;name&gt;@&lt;tag&gt;
  npm install [&lt;@scope&gt;/]&lt;name&gt;@&lt;version&gt;
  npm install [&lt;@scope&gt;/]&lt;name&gt;@&lt;version range&gt;
  npm install &lt;git-host&gt;:&lt;git-user&gt;/&lt;repo-name&gt;
  npm install &lt;git repo url&gt;
  npm install &lt;tarball file&gt;
  npm install &lt;tarball url&gt;
  npm install &lt;folder&gt;</code></pre>
</details>
<br>

> ### Global templates installed with yarn or npm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Global templates installed with `yarn` or `npm`
```

```

The parameter `--map-base-url` maps external schema references to local folders.

### CLI usage with Docker

When using our docker image that we regularly update, you don't need to install Node.js or Npm, even though the Generator is written with it since the Docker image has the Generator installed.

Install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) first, then use docker to pull and run the image using the following command:

```bash
docker run --rm -it \
-v [ASYNCAPI SPEC FILE LOCATION]:/app/asyncapi.yml \
-v [GENERATED FILES LOCATION]:/app/output \
asyncapi/generator [COMMAND HERE]

# Example that you can run inside generator directory after cloning this repository. First, you specify the mount in the location of your AsyncAPI specification file and then you mount it in the directory where the generation result should be saved.
docker run --rm -it \
-v ${PWD}/test/docs/dummy.yml:/app/asyncapi.yml \
-v ${PWD}/output:/app/output \
asyncapi/generator -o /app/output /app/asyncapi.yml @asyncapi/html-template --force-write
```

> ### CLI usage with npx instead of npm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### CLI usage with `npx` instead of `npm`
```
